now if we really want to impress people
or be able to communicate which part get
our terminology straight so let's talk
about some terms up top here we have an
instance variable this is a variable
that tracks a property of a specific
instance of the current class so here we
have weight in pounds but we could in
principle have other properties of a dog
like the wait wait where did I have the
weight sorry the height the favorite
color like job favorite food favorite
city in Italy whatever it is a dog might
want to do here we have the constructor
and in our case we just have one
parameter that set a single instance
variable and in principle you could do
whatever you want in this constructor
though typically one of the most
important things is setting all the
instance variables but you don't have to
set all of them you can let it stay at
the default value we won't talk about
this in these videos but you know
there's various fun corner cases about
setting or not setting things but the
constructor tells you how to construct
an instance of the object and then
lastly here we have a so called non
static or also known as an instance
method and the basic idea here we
noticed that static is not there and an
instance method is one that is invoked
by a specific instance so you can think
about it this way if we have a dog named
Steve right it's in the Steve variable
we tell Steve Steve dot make noise then
Steve will use Steve's weight in pounds
to decide which behavior Steve is going
to do so roughly speaking if when you're
reading the method you can say if my
weight is less than 10 then yep yep yep
and so forth then that means it's a
method that is non static and in fact if
you need to use any of my instance
variables if you have the static keyword
it'll get confused and it'll say you
cannot and you cannot access an instance
variable from a static context so that's
the we'll get a more nuanced view of
that in the next little section of these
videos so a little more terminology when
we did our dog launching we had a pretty
simple dog launching procedure where we
go if we look at it no we look at our
dog launching procedure it was very
simple we could
dog and haven't make noise but we could
have a more complicated situation so
here's a little more detailed
terminology on this first line we have
the declaration of a dog variable we say
there's a dog variable called small dog
but at this point we haven't actually
created any kind of dog at all
there's been no instantiation there's
just a place that a dog could go this is
the opposite this is creating a dog of
size 20 but then not putting it anywhere
and in this case since nobody uses it it
will just get destroyed by the so called
garbage collector very scary but we'll
cover that stuff later and for now you
can just know that if you instantiate
dogs they'll be destroyed by some kind
of ruthless garbage collector now if you
want to avoid losing your dog you want
to put it somewhere so in this case this
line of code instantiates a dog and then
assigns it to an already declared
variable so this is instantiation an
assignment so often what you'll do is
you'll do all three I declare there is a
variable named huge dog we instantiate
it and then we ensign we assign that new
dog to the huge dog
and then here we have a couple of
so-called invocations so here I'm saying
huge dog I would like you to invoke your
make a noise method and this dot you can
think of as meaning a member of right so
it's it belongs to this class and so as
far as terminology goes that's all we
need for now and we'll move towards
looking at a little more in-depth
picture of what static means but first
one more thing